Marketing Channel Worksheet	
YOUR COMPANY	
	
CHANNEL & DESCRIPTION	IDEAS >>>>>
"TARGETING BLOGS
Targeting blogs prospective customers read"	
"PUBLICITY
The art of getting your name out there via traditional media outlets like news outlets, newspapers, magazines, and TV"	
"UNCONVENTIONAL PR
There are two different types of unconventional PR. 

1. The publicity stunt. A publicity stunt is anything that is engineered to get media coverage.

2. Customer appreciation: smaller, more scalable actions (like holding contests or sending handwritten notes to customers) that both increase goodwill as well as generate press coverage.
"	
"SEARCH ENGINE MARKETING
SEM includes the use of paid search, such as pay per click (PPC) listings and advertisements"	
"SOCIAL & DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are the banner ads that you see on Web sites all over the Internet. Social ads are the ads on social sites, like those in or near your Facebook and Twitter timelines."	
"OFFLINE ADS
Offline marketing strategies utilize offline media channels to create awareness of a company's products and services. These campaigns can include radio and print advertising – including billboards, signs and pamphlets – telemarketing, and television ads."	
"SEARCH ENGINE OPTIMIZATION
Almost all Internet users turn to search engines for answers. Search engine optimization (SEO) is the process of improving your ranking in search engines in order to get more people to your site."	
"CONTENT MARKETING
Involves the creation and sharing of online material (such as videos, blogs, and social media posts) that does not explicitly promote a brand but is intended to stimulate interest in its products or services."	
"EMAIL MARKETING
Email marketing is a personal channel. Messages from your company sit next to email updates from friends and family. As such, email marketing works best when it is personalized. Email can be tailored to individual customer actions such that every email communication is relevant."	
"VIRAL MARKETING
Viral marketing consists of growing your customer base by encouraging your customers to refer other customers...In the context of startups, literally “going viral” means that every user you acquire brings in at least one other user."	
"ENGINEERING AS MARKETING
Your team’s engineering skills can get your startup traction directly by building tools and resources that reach more people. You make useful tools like calculators, widgets, and educational microsites to get your company in front of potential customers."	
"BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Business development (BD) is the process of creating strategic relationships that benefit both your startup and your partner. It’s like sales with one key distinction: With sales, you’re selling directly to a customer. With business development, you’re partnering to reach customers in a way that benefits both parties."	
"SALES
Sales is focused primarily on creating processes to directly exchange product for dollars. Sometimes hand-holding prospects can be necessary to turn them into real customers."	
"AFFILIATE PROGRAMS
An affiliate program is an arrangement where you pay people or companies for performing certain actions like making a sale or getting a qualified lead. "	
"EXISTING PLATFORMS
Existing platforms are Web sites, apps, or networks with huge numbers of users — sometimes in the hundreds of millions — that you can potentially leverage to get traction."	
"TRADE SHOWS
Trade shows offer you the opportunity to showcase your products in person. These events are often exclusive to industry insiders, and are designed to foster interactions between vendors and their prospects."	
"OFFLINE EVENTS
Sponsoring or running events — from small meetups to large conferences"	
"SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS
This channel works well wherever there is a group of people in a room that — if you pitched them right — would move the needle for your business."	
"COMMUNITY BUILDING
Community building involves investing in the connections among your customers, fostering those relationships and helping them bring more people into your startup’s circle."	
	